---
title: "Eating as a Habit, Correlation with the Spiritual Realm"
date: "2014-09-24 01:37:55"
---

One lesson I've heard repeatedly but can't say I've fully learned is the correlation between essential items of our physical life and their spiritual counterparts\u2014specifically, eating. We maintain our physical life by eating regularly. In my case, that's 3 to 5 different sized meals per day. What I eat, how much I eat, and how often I eat dictate an enormous part of my resulting physical state of being (I have heard\u00a080%). If I want to grow or shrink in stature, I need to adjust my eating. If I want to be healthy or sick, I also adjust my eating. If I skip meals, my temperament, behavior and appearance are affected. If I stop eating, eventually I will die. <!--more Read post-->\r\n\r\nSo it is in the spiritual realm. Matthew 4:4 of the New Testament says that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. The first part of Jeremiah 15:15 says, Your words were found, and I ate them. In the spiritual realm, the word of God is man's food. It sustains his spiritual life, causes him to grow, adjusts his expression, and composes his entire spiritual being, just as physical sustenance does for man's body.\r\n\r\nWhy then skip a Bible reading hour? Why skip it for a week? If I wake up late and miss breakfast just once, that same day I'm not myself by noon, and I'm not thinking of anything else except what I'm going to eat. I can't say I don't have a similar feeling towards reading, but if I were to compare the two, it's obviously much easier to skip the reading than the meal. Then again, I do also notice the same lack of discipline with eating in regards to strength training and bodybuilding goals. In both scenarios I have to preach to myself day in and day out that the regular, seemingly small intervals of eating are not inconsequential; rather, they contribute to my long-term goals and are not at all optional.\r\n\r\nIf I'm honest with myself, I've always only ever done the bare minimum to survive, whether with physical or spiritual eating. In physical eating that could mean eating just any meal or skipping a meal, and making a habit out of it; in spiritual, reading once per week or in particularly low times, once every two weeks. I don't know that I want to dig deeper into personal reasonings for this, but I definitely want to once and for all get it through my head that I can't consider this acceptable anymore. With certain concrete goals in life, I have to do my daily diligence in taking one step closer to where I want to be. In this case, that starts with establishing healthy habits of every day eating with purpose, and every day taking in the word of God. It has to be in the same category as brushing my teeth and taking a shower every night before bed. I have to tap into the part of my human brain that caters to regular habits.\r\n\r\nI'm thankful that tomorrow morning is a new day.
