---
title: "Engine Coolant Thermostat Replacement, 2004 Suzuki Forenza"
date: "2015-04-09 00:43:00"
---

Replacing this sensor on your Forenza is fairly simple, seeing as it's located right in front in an easy to get to location. All you will need is the replacement sensor, which comes inside its housing, a few tools, and a pan to drain your coolant.\r\n<ol>\r\n\t<li><a href=\"#stepone\">Drain the coolant<\/a><\/li>\r\n\t<li><a href=\"#steptwo\">Remove hose and faulty sensor<\/a><\/li>\r\n\t<li><a href=\"#stepthree\">Install the new sensor<\/a><\/li>\r\n\t<li><a href=\"#stepfour\">Reattach hose and replace coolant<\/a><\/li>\r\n<\/ol>\r\n<section id=\"stepone\"><strong>1. Drain the coolant<\/strong>Open your coolant reservoir. Then, locate your drain plug screw on the bottom of the radiator, which should be right behind the front bumper. You shouldn't need to lift your car to do it. Place your drain pan underneath the hole that lines up with the drain plug screw and slowly unscrew the plug. The fluid will start to flow through the hole. Sit tight and let it drain. When it's done, set it aside somewhere where stuff can't fall in (if you plan to put the same fluid back in), or dispose of it.\r\n\r\n<\/section><section id=\"steptwo\"><strong>2. Remove hose and faulty sensor<\/strong>Remove the hose that connects the radiator to the faulty sensor, and push it aside. Unscrew the bolts attaching the sensor to the engine block. Pull the sensor off.\r\n\r\n<\/section><section id=\"stepthree\"><strong>3. Install the new sensor<\/strong>Clean off the surface on the engine where the old sensor was. Then, install the new sensor (with gasket that comes with it). Do not overtighten!\r\n\r\n<\/section><section id=\"stepfour\"><strong>4. Reattach hose and replace coolant<\/strong>Put the hose back on where it was. Screw your drain plug back in. Replace coolant in the reservoir until you get to the line. Start the car and let it warm up. After the car has warmed up, shut it off, let it cool down and add more coolant until it gets to the line. Check the sensor and make sure it isn't leaking. You're done!\r\n\r\n<\/section>
